[[PAGE 1]]
THE TOWN OF UNIVERSITY PARK

REQUEST FOR BID PROPOSALS

FOR A

COMMUNICATIONS CONSULTANT

CONTRACT UP-2012-01

Issued by:

Town of University Park
STEP UP Program
6724 Baltimore Avenue
University Park, MD 20782

Bid Submission Deadline
4:00 p.m.
Friday, February 17th, 2012

[[PAGE 2]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
2

TOWN OF UNIVERSITY PARK, MARYLAND
REQUEST FOR BID PROPOSALS
FOR A COMMUNICATIONS CONSULTANT
CONTRACT UP-2012-01

Sealed bids for a communications consultant will be received at the Town of University Park,
6724 Baltimore Avenue, University Park, Maryland 20782, until Friday, February 17th, 2012,
at 4:00 p.m. One (1) printed and one (1) electronic copy of the Proposal shall be submitted.

[[PAGE 3]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
3

The purpose of this Request for Proposals (“RFP”) is to solicit bids from individuals and/or firms
interested in serving as a Communications Consultant to STEP-UP (the “Communications
Consultant”).

3.
RFP BID TERMS & CONDITIONS

The Town reserves the right to cancel the award of the contract at any time prior to execution of
the Contract without liability on the part of the Town.

[[PAGE 4]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
4

To be considered, Bidder’s Proposal must be complete and in the format indicated in this RFP,
and delivered by the date and time indicated in this RFP.

The Bidder to whom the Contract has been awarded must execute a Contract substantially
similar to the one attached within ten business days after the award and submit such other
Documents as required by the Contract Documents.

After execution of the Contract, the Contractor will initiate work within five days of Notice to
Proceed.

The Bidder shall obtain any license or permit required by law to undertake the work as
described in the Contract Documents.

Documents to be submitted with bid include:

Proposal
Affidavits
Information Regarding Bidder
Vendor Certification
Certificate of Compliance

[[PAGE 5]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
5

4.
SCOPE OF COMMUNICATION SERVICES

The Communications Consultant shall provide the following communications services as and when
needed: media and communications materials, web support, social media, events support, and an
information gathering repository.

[[PAGE 6]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
6

5.
QUALIFICATIONS

The STEP-UP Communications Consultant shall have the following qualifications:
• Minimum of 5 years experience in a Marketing Communications position or other marketing
role.
• Minimum of 2 years experience working with web-based marketing campaigns.
• Excellent writing/editing and verbal communication skills.
• A strong track record as an implementer who thrives on managing a variety of key initiatives.
• Demonstrated strong attention to detail while concurrently maintaining the ability to establish
and follow routine processes and procedures.
• Ability to meet strict deadlines and changing priorities.
• Demonstrated interpersonal, problem-solving and communication skills.
• Exercises initiative in undertaking routine assignments/projects without direct supervision.

[[PAGE 7]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
7

• Demonstrated experience in journalism, interviewing, writing and other media.
• Knowledge of and experience with shooting and editing video is preferred.
• Graphical design and layout experience.
• Knowledge of marketing automation tools and social media strategies highly desired.
• Bachelor's degree required. Knowledge of the non-profit sector preferred.

5.
BIDDER’S PROPOSAL

Required Materials. The Bidder must include the following information in the Proposal:

a) Resume or corporate profile clearly reflecting qualifications and experiences.
b) Samples of communication and media materials.
c) Minimum and maximum number of hours per month that are required or preferred by the
Bidder for the position to be feasible and/or desirable, and days of the week / times of the day
that the Bidder is available to perform the Services for STEP-UP.
d) Hourly rate that is required or preferred by the Bidder for the consulting arrangement to be
feasible and/or desirable. Note that travel hours shall not be billable and work hours shall be
billed to the nearest one-quarter of an hour.
e) Any administrative expenses that the Bidder anticipates billing to STEP-UP.
f) Any other terms and/or conditions required or preferred by the Bidder.
g) Description of the individual’s or firm’s current legal and financial situation, including any
bankruptcies filed and any material claims, judgments, arbitrations, investigations or lawsuits.
h) Acknowledgement that the Bidder agrees to purchase and maintain commercial general
liability insurance, professional errors and omissions insurance, and workers’ compensation.
i) List of at least three (3) professional references.

Format. The Proposal shall satisfy the following formatting requirements:
• The Proposal shall not exceed more than 5-pages, excluding attachments.
• The Proposal shall include all of the required information indicated herein.

[[PAGE 8]]
1-25-2012 FINAL POSTED
8

Delivery Requirements. One (1) printed and one (1) electronic copy of the Proposal shall be
submitted to Suzanne Parmet no later than 4:00 PM on Friday, February 17th, 2012.
